Add Mini Apps series (#3938)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/mini-apps/mini-app-super-apps/index.md

---
layout: post
title: Mini apps and super apps
authors:
  - thomassteiner
date: 2021-02-25
# updated: 2021-02-25
description: |

>   This chapter introduces the concept of super apps and presents the major players.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This chapter introduces the concept of super apps and presents the major super app providers.
```

tags:
  - mini-apps
---

## Welcome to mini apps

> When you look at the applications on your phone, you probably have specific apps for specific tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you look at applications on your phone, you probably have specific apps for specific tasks.
```

> You might have a banking app. You might have an app for buying public transit tickets. Likely you
> have an app for getting directions, etc. In this post, I introduce you to the concept of a different
> kind of app, namely mini apps, sometimes also referred to as mini programs or applets. I first
> provide some background on the various mini app platforms and their developer experience, and then
> focus on things the web can learn from mini apps. But before I start writing about mini apps, I
> first need to talk about super apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might have a banking app. You might have an app for buying public transit tickets. Likely you
have an app for getting directions, etc. In this post, I introduce you to the concept of a different
kind of app, namely mini apps, sometimes also referred to as mini programs or applets. I first
provide some background on the various mini app platforms and their developer experience, and then
focus on things the web can learn from mini apps. But before I start writing about mini apps, I
first need to talk about super apps.
```
```suggestion
You might have a banking app. You might have an app for buying public transit tickets. Likely you
have an app for getting directions, and many more specialized apps. This post introduces you to the 
concept of a different kind of apps—mini apps—sometimes also called mini programs or applets. 
You'll first learn about the background of various mini app platforms and their developer experience, and 
then focus on things the web can learn from mini apps. But before learning about mini apps, you first 
need to learn about super apps.
```

Reviewer: Rephrased this to focus on the reader's POV, what they'll learn, rather than what you'll explain. We generally recommend avoiding writing in first person, so I'll suggest edits wherever it's not necessary.

## What are super apps?

> Super apps are apps that are hosts to other apps that run within the super app: the so-called mini
> apps. Popular super apps are Tencent's [WeChat](https://weixin.qq.com/) (微信), the app of the
> search engine [Baidu](https://baidu.com/) (百度), Ant Group's (an affiliate company of the Chinese
> Alibaba Group) [Alipay](https://www.alipay.com/) (支付宝), but also ByteDance's
> [Douyin](https://www.douyin.com/) (抖音), which you might know as TikTok (蒂克托克). The first three
> are commonly also referred to as BAT, which derives from **B**(aidu)**A**(libaba)**T**(encent). Super apps have taken the
> Chinese market by storm, which is why a lot of the examples in this article are Chinese.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Super apps serve as hosts to other apps that run within them: the so-called mini apps. Popular super apps are 
[WeChat](https://weixin.qq.com/) (微信) by Tencent, [Alipay](https://www.alipay.com/) (支付宝) by Ant Group 
(an affiliate company of the Chinese Alibaba Group), the app of the search engine [Baidu](https://baidu.com/) (百度), 
as well as ByteDance's [Douyin](https://www.douyin.com/) (抖音), which you might know as TikTok (蒂克托克). 
The first three are commonly also referred to as BAT, derived from **B**(aidu)**A**(libaba)**T**(encent). 
Super apps have taken the Chinese market by storm, which is why a lot of the examples in this article are Chinese.
```

Reviewer: I found the second sentence very difficult to follow, so I rearranged it (in a way that makes more sense to _me_). It's best to use parallelism in these constructions, but here it breaks on both Baidu (because we don't have an English name for the app) and the very long explanation of owners of Alipay. This is easier for me because at least it starts out with more familiar terms (WeChat rather than Tencent, and Alipay rather than AntGroup et al.).

<figure class="w-figure">
  {% Img src="image/8WbTDNrhLsU0El80frMBGE4eMCD3/UKmUgG231MtQ2nEo1P0K.PNG", alt="List of recently launched mini apps in the WeChat super app.", width=300, height=649 %}
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">The WeChat super app showing recently launched mini apps.</figcaption>
</figure>

> ### Short characterization of each super app platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### A few words about super app platforms
```

Reviewer: Just trying out a simpler subtitle, open to other suggestions, eg. "Roles of super app platforms"
